README.md, before:

# OctoRelay

A plugin that adds buttons to the navigation bar to toggle GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi.

This Plugin was based on the [Octolight Plugin](https://github.com/gigibu5/OctoLight) by Žiga Kralj, thanks ;-)

![WebUI interface](img/screenshot.png)

I use it with a 4 relay board, and printed this case for it:
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2975944

![Relay Board](img/relay-raspberry.jpg)

Just hooked up the GPIO pins with the relay board, and now I can turn the power of the printer,
the fan and the light on and off with OctoPrint.

![Raspberry Pi GPIO](img/rpi_gpio.png)

## Setup

Install via the bundled [Plugin Manager](https://docs.octoprint.org/en/master/bundledplugins/pluginmanager.html)
or manually using this URL:

> https://github.com/borisbu/OctoRelay/archive/master.zip

## Configuration

![Settings panel](img/settings.png)

Currently, OctoRelay supports up to 8 relays.
Each one has the following settings *(in order of appearance)*:

| Setting               | Description                                                |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Active                | Activates the relay and its control on the navigation bar  |
| Label                 | The HTML title of the icon in the navigation bar (hint)    |
| GPIO Number           | The GPIO pin on the Raspberry Pi *(see the picture above)* |
| Inverted output       | For normally closed relay: the relay is ON without power   |
| OS Command *(ON/OFF)* | The command or a script to toggle the relay                |
| Icon *(ON/OFF)*       | An HTML tag to display on the navigation bar               |
| Confirmation          | Enables a confirmation dialog when turning the relay OFF   |
| ON initially on boot  | Turns the relay ON on start                                |
| ON before printing    | Turns the relay ON when started printing                   |
| OFF after printing    | Turns the relay OFF after finished printing                |
| Delay                 | Postpones turning the relay OFF for *X* seconds            |

## Updates

Check out the versions, their features and bug fixes in the [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Fix incorrect description of the OS command setting. (#84)
* Fix incorrect description of the OS command setting.

* Reflecting that the command is optional.

README.md, after:

# OctoRelay

A plugin that adds buttons to the navigation bar to toggle GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi.

This Plugin was based on the [Octolight Plugin](https://github.com/gigibu5/OctoLight) by Žiga Kralj, thanks ;-)

![WebUI interface](img/screenshot.png)

I use it with a 4 relay board, and printed this case for it:
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2975944

![Relay Board](img/relay-raspberry.jpg)

Just hooked up the GPIO pins with the relay board, and now I can turn the power of the printer,
the fan and the light on and off with OctoPrint.

![Raspberry Pi GPIO](img/rpi_gpio.png)

## Setup

Install via the bundled [Plugin Manager](https://docs.octoprint.org/en/master/bundledplugins/pluginmanager.html)
or manually using this URL:

> https://github.com/borisbu/OctoRelay/archive/master.zip

## Configuration

![Settings panel](img/settings.png)

Currently, OctoRelay supports up to 8 relays.
Each one has the following settings *(in order of appearance)*:

| Setting               | Description                                                |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Active                | Activates the relay and its control on the navigation bar  |
| Label                 | The HTML title of the icon in the navigation bar (hint)    |
| GPIO Number           | The GPIO pin on the Raspberry Pi *(see the picture above)* |
| Inverted output       | For normally closed relay: the relay is ON without power   |
| OS Command *(ON/OFF)* | An optional command to run when the relay state changes    |
| Icon *(ON/OFF)*       | An HTML tag to display on the navigation bar               |
| Confirmation          | Enables a confirmation dialog when turning the relay OFF   |
| ON initially on boot  | Turns the relay ON on start                                |
| ON before printing    | Turns the relay ON when started printing                   |
| OFF after printing    | Turns the relay OFF after finished printing                |
| Delay                 | Postpones turning the relay OFF for *X* seconds            |

## Updates

Check out the versions, their features and bug fixes in the [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md).
